---
layout: posts
title:  "Life Technologies"
date:   2023-07-01 16:13:27 -0500
tags: ["life science"]
author_profile: true
author: Leigh Stewardson
author_profile: true
author: Leigh Stewardson
categories: product
highlight_home: true
tagline: "Cancer Assay Interface"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/life.png
  teaser:  /assets/images/life.png
  caption: "Photo credit: **Leigh Stewardson**"
description: This article showcases the game Collaborate and how I build it.
---

## Background
The Life Sciences division required a revamp of the outdated Cancer Assay tool interface, necessitating a transition to a more contemporary programming language. Tasked with this project, I initiated a thorough process of user research, which subsequently informed iterative design enhancements.

## Approach
In collaboration with the business leads, I conducted comprehensive user research to identify various pain points associated with the existing application. While retaining crucial elements, I overhauled the interface to unveil data in a sequential manner, aligning with users' preferred methods.

## Results
The revamped tool was developed by an offshore team under my guidance. The project garnered recognition when presented at an internal conference, securing an innovation award.

## Next Steps
Ideally, I would have preferred to continue monitoring metrics on this interface and further refine its usability. Unfortunately, due to the conclusion of the contract, I was unable to pursue these improvements.

<div id="nanogallery2" >
    <!-- <a href = "/assets/images/life1.png"   data-ngThumb = "/assets/images/life7_t.png" > Berlin 1 </a>
    <a href = "/assets/images/life2.png"   data-ngThumb = "/assets/images/life7_t.png" > Berlin 2 </a>
    <a href = "/assets/images/life3.png"   data-ngThumb = "/assets/images/life7_t.png" > Berlin 3 </a> -->
</div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery2").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',

  // ### gallery content ###
  items: [
      { src: 'life1.png', srct: 'life1.png' },
      { src: 'life2.png', srct: 'life2.png' },
      { src: 'life3.png', srct: 'life3.png' },
      { src: 'life3.png', srct: 'life4.png'},
      { src: 'life3.png', srct: 'life5.png'},
      { src: 'life3.png', srct: 'life6.png'},
      { src: 'life3.png', srct: 'life7.png' }
  ]
});
</script>